Overhaul revision of Okta integration guide (#213)
gobeyondidentity/customer-docs: docs/access-control/applications/okta.mdx

Once the following stages and steps are complete, end users can authenticate to Okta using their device's passkey. This enhances security by eliminating passwords from the login flow while also improving the user experience by removing the need to enter a password.

## Stage summary

The integration setup consists of the four stages below. Each stage covers the initial set up for continuing the integration process on each respective platform. Follow the guide in linear order to complete the integration.

| Stage | Summary | Okta | Beyond Identity |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| [I](#stage-i) | Initial set up | - [Set up Beyond Identity group in Okta](#-okta-set-up-beyond-identity-group) | - [Set up Okta Application in Beyond Identity Console](#-beyond-identity-set-up-okta-application-in-console) |
| [II](#stage-ii) | System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) implementation | - [Create SCIM app](#-okta-create-outbound-scim-app)<br></br>- [Update provisioning for SCIM](#-okta-update-provisioning-for-scim)<br></br>- [Push SCIM users](#-okta-push-scim-users) | - [Create API token for inbound SCIM](#-beyond-identity-create-api-token-for-inbound-scim) |

> | [III](#stage-iii) | Single sign-on configuration | - [Create Okta API token](#-okta-create-okta-api-token)<br></br>- [Set up custom attribute for users](#-okta-set-up-custom-attribute-for-users) | - [Configure Okta domain](#-beyond-identity-configure-okta-domain) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [III](#stage-iii) | Okta registration attribute setup | - [Create Okta API token](#-okta-create-okta-api-token)<br></br>- [Set up custom attribute for users](#-okta-set-up-custom-attribute-for-users) | - [Configure Okta domain](#-beyond-identity-configure-okta-domain) |
```

| [IV](#stage-iv) | Identity provider setup and enrollment | - [Configure new identity provider](#-okta-configure-new-identity-provider)<br></br>- [Create routing rules](#-okta-create-routing-rules) | - [Assign application to group](#-beyond-identity-assign-application-to-group)<br></br>- [Enroll users](#-beyond-identity-enroll-users)<br></br>- [Create Okta bookmark](#-beyond-identity-create-okta-bookmark) |

## Prerequisites

This information contains the necessary items for integrating Beyond Identity into your Okta organization with phishing-resistant multifactor authentication.

### Okta

- Okta account access with Organizational Admin or Super Admin privileges  

> - Available features of OpenID Connect IdP and routing rules\-  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Available features of OpenID Connect IdP and routing rules
```

is the \- needed?

   1. **SCIM URL** →  **SCIM 2.0 Base Url**  
   2. **Bearer token** → **OAuth Bearer Token**  
5. Click **Test API Credentials**.  
6. Click **Save**.

### 🟠 Okta: Continue SCIM app setup

When the API credentials are configured, the SCIM application for Okta needs additional setup for permissions and assignments. The steps below are for the SCIM app to manage users and assign them to the Beyond Identity group.

1. On the **SCIM Beyond Identity Application** page, navigate to **Provisioning** → **To App** → **Provisioning to App** section.  
2. Click **Edit.**  
3. Check the following boxes.  
   1. **Create Users**  
   2. **Update User Attributes**  
   3. **Deactivate users**  
4. Click **Save**.  
5. Navigate to **Assignments** → Click **Assign** drop down → Select **Assign to Groups**  
6. Select **Assign** for **Beyond Identity** group.  
7. Click **Done**.

### 🟠 Okta: Push SCIM users

With the configuration complete for the inbound and outbound SCIM implementation, the app must push users to Beyond Identity. Begin this process with the steps below.

> 1. On the **SCIM Beyond Identity Application** page, navigate to **Push Groups** tab.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the **Beyond Identity Outbound SCIM** Application page, navigate to **Push Groups** tab.  
```

2. Click **Push Groups** dropdown.  
3. Select **Find groups by name**.  
4. Search for **Beyond Identity** group.  

>    - NOTE: Cannot have existing group names in Beyond Identity for SCIM integration  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - NOTE: You CANNOT have a group **with the same name existing** in the Beyond Identity directory. If there is, it will result in an error.
```

5. Click **Save**. This prompts the SCIM process to begin in Okta to push the group to Beyond Identity.

:::note

> Beyond Identity: Directory - Check the identities and groups in the Beyond Identity Console to confirm the SCIM setup and application success. Updates may take time. If the SCIM setup hasn't completed, check your SCIM application configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the identities and groups in the Beyond Identity Console to confirm the SCIM setup and application success. Updates may take time. If the SCIM setup hasn't completed, check your SCIM application configuration. 
```

:::

## Stage III

> The sections for Stage III cover setting up Beyond Identity as the single sign-on application for the identity provider in Okta. They involve creating a token in Okta, setting up a custom attribute, then configuring the registration attributes in Beyond Identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sections for Stage III cover setting up Beyond Identity as the single sign-on application for the identity provider in Okta. 

This involves setting up a callback hook into your Okta directory to update an attribute on users in your Okta directory to say that your user has registered a Beyond Identity passkey.

This attribute will later be used in Stage IV to route your users to use Beyond Identity to authenticate into Okta rather than your existing authentication methods.
```

### 🟠 Okta: Create Okta API token

The steps below are for the Okta platform. This section guides you through creating an API token to use within Beyond Identity.

1. On the Okta platform, navigate to **Security** → **API** → click the **Tokens** tab.  
2. Click the **Create token** button.  
3. Input a name for the token in the first field.  
4. On the dropdown field below, select **Any IP**.  
5. Click **Create token**.  

> 6. Copy the token value and store it in a secure location. Click **OK, got it** to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Name the token **Beyond Identity API Token**.
7. API Calls made with this token must originate from **Any IP**. This can be changed later.
8. Copy the token value and store it in a secure location. Click **OK, got it** to continue.
```

### 🟠 Okta: Set up custom attribute for users

The section here is for setting up a custom attribute for users in Okta. This value acts as a flag for users signing in to Okta to be directed to the Beyond Identity sign on process. When the integration is complete, the phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication from Beyond Identity serves as the security between the user and the resources.

> When the user creates a Beyond Identity passkey, the cloud service sets the `byndidRegistered` value to `true` in the Okta user's profile. This indicates the user has a Beyond Identity passkey. The boolean value set to true is the flag for the Beyond Identity process in the login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user creates a Beyond Identity passkey, the cloud service sets the `byndidRegistered` value to `true` in the Okta user's profile. This indicates the user has a Beyond Identity passkey. The boolean value set to true and used for the routing rule to direct users to use Beyond Identity authentication during login.
```

1. On the Okta platform, navigate to **Directory** → **Profile editor**.  
2. Select the **User (default)** profile under the Okta type.  
3. Scroll to the **Attributes** section.  
4. Click **+ Add attribute**.  
5. For the attribute, select the following and input or select the values in the associated fields.  
   1. **Data type** → **Boolean**  
   2. **Display name** → `Beyond Identity Registration Status`  
   3. **Variable name** → `byndidRegistered`  

>    4. **User permission** → select **Read only**  

Reviewer: ![Screenshot 2025-01-29 at 1 41 33 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/369db5ea-7da8-40a7-a58a-724e83f582e3)

not sure i saw this value?

Author: Yeah, probably for the best to keep it more minimal and update it later as needed

6. Click **Save**.

> ### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Configure Okta domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Configure Okta domain and set up API Access
```

> This section is for configuring the Okta credentials and values within Beyond Identity to complete the single sign-on setup. With these fields configured, Okta can then route users to Beyond Identity for phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication. The steps below are for the Beyond Identity console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section guides you through configuring the Okta token created in the previous step to set an attribute in your Okta directory, indicating that the user is registered with Beyond Identity. This attribute will later be used to route users through Beyond Identity for authentication.
```

1. On the new Okta app in Beyond Identity, navigate to the **Configure registration attribute for users in Okta** section.  
2. Input the following information into the respective fields.  

>    1. Okta Domain → the Okta domain URL value from your Okta account   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Okta Domain → the Okta domain URL value from your Okta account. NOTE: it must resolve to the full URL, and without the `-admin` suffix. E.g. https://dev-48007952.okta.com
```

   2. Okta Token → the Okta token from Step 6 of 🟠 [Okta: Create Okta API token](#-okta-create-okta-api-token)
3. Click **Save changes** at the top of the page.  

> 4. Scroll down to the **Client Information & Endpoints** section for values to copy to Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Scroll down to the **Client Information & Endpoints** section for values to copy to Okta.
5. Click **Save Changes** at the top of the page.
```

## Stage IV

In this stage of the integration, the Okta platform requires the new identity provider of Beyond Identity to get configured. The sections below also include using routing rules for Beyond Identity to serve as the identity provider when logging into Okta resources.

> After Okta has the Beyond Identity identity provider set up, the groups in Beyond Identity must be assigned to the new Okta app within the console. This completes the process to use Beyond Identity as the phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication flow for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Okta has the Beyond Identity identity provider set up, the users/groups in Beyond Identity must be assigned to the new Okta app within the console. This completes the process to use Beyond Identity as the phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication flow for users.
```

### 🟠 Okta: Configure new identity provider

This section is for setting up Beyond Identity as a new identity provider in Okta. These steps require values from Beyond Identity to enable the phishing-resistant multifactor authentication flow.

:::note
The steps here must be completed before moving on to the Beyond Identity sections for Stage IV.
:::

1. On the Okta platform, navigate to **Security** → **Identity Providers**.  
2. Click **+ Add identity provider**.  
3. Select **OpenID Connect IdP** and click **Next**.  
4. Under the General settings section, input `Beyond Identity` for the name.  

> 5. Under the **Client details** and **Endpoints** sections, input the following values from Step 4 of the [Beyond Identity: Configure Okta domain section](#-beyond-identity-configure-okta-domain) to Okta.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under the **Client details** and **Endpoints** sections, input the following values from **Client Information & Endpoints** of your Okta app in Beyond Identity. NOTE: This ensure you are in the **Client Information & Endpoints**, and not the **Configure registration attribute for users in Okta** section. There are two clientIDs here so don't get confused!
```

:::

### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Enroll users

After completing the Okta and Beyond Identity integration for phishing-resistant multifactor authentication, follow the steps in this section to enroll users and their passkeys. With the passkey, the process for users to log in to their Okta resources uses the Beyond Identity flow without requiring a username or password. Proceed to the Beyond Identity console to complete the steps below.

1. On the Beyond Identity console, navigate to **Identities** → a specific user → **Passkeys** tab.  
2. New users have no passkeys added. Click **Add a passkey**.  
3. Under Identity Verification Method, select **Magic link**.  
4. For the Delivery Method option, select **Send email** or **Generate link.**  
5. Click the **Send enrollment** button.  
   1. For the Send email option, the email connected to that identity receives a Beyond Identity email for the process to register a passkey.  
   2. For the Generate link option, a URL is generated from Beyond Identity. This link is for sharing with the user for them to register a passkey.  

> 6. When the user goes through the link to register a passkey, they enroll in Beyond Identity and can begin logging in with phishing-resistant multifactor authentication.

Author: New section added starting on line 315!

## End users: Register passkey

> As end users receive the link to generate a passkey, they can follow the steps in the Beyond Identity Platform Authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As end users receive their magic link, they can follow the interactive guide that the link sends them to.

This enrollment email will guide them through the following 2 steps:
1. Download the Beyond Identity Platform Authenticator - this is the app that is required for Beyond Identity authentication.
2. Enroll a passkey on their device.
```

7. Keep the app open for values to add to Okta later.

### 🟠 Okta: Set up Beyond Identity group

This section covers creating a Beyond Identity group in your Okta environment. This will be the subset of users that will use Beyond Identity phishing-resistant authentication to authenticate into Okta.

1. On your Okta home page, navigate to **Directory** → **Groups** on the left hand side.  
2. Click the **Add Group** button.  
3. In the **Name** field, input `Beyond Identity`. Description is optional.
4. Click **Save**. This returns you to the **Groups** page.  
5. Click the **Beyond Identity** group.  
6. Click the **Assign people** button to assign users with the **+** icon to the **Beyond Identity** group.  
7. Click **Done** to return to the **Groups** page.

## Stage II

The Stage II sections cover the System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) implementation between Beyond Identity as the inbound platform and Okta as the outbound platform.

SCIM is used to populate users from your Okta directory to the Beyond Identity directory. The SCIM protocol automatically updates any changes in your Okta directory to the Beyond Identity directory.

:::note

> With the SCIM implementation, this means the Okta directory is the source of truth. Any changes made to your directory also occur in Okta and are reflected in the Beyond Identity directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the SCIM implementation, this means the Okta directory is the source of truth. Any changes made to your Okta directory will be pushed and reflected in the Beyond Identity directory.
```

:::

### 🟠 Okta: Create outbound SCIM app

To have Okta act as the outbound SCIM provider, follow the steps below. All the steps in this process happen within the Okta platform.

1. Navigate to **Applications** → **Applications** on the left hand side.  
2. Click the **Browse App catalog** button.  
3. In the search field, input `SCIM 2.0 Test App (OAuth Bearer Token)` to select the correct app.  
4. On the `SCIM 2.0 Test App (OAuth Bearer Token)` page, click **Add integration**.  
5. In the Application label field, update the text to `Beyond Identity Outbound SCIM`.  
6. For the **General settings· Required** page, the default values are valid. Click **Next**.  
7. For the **Sign-On Options· Required** page, the default values are valid as well. Click **Done** at the bottom of the page.

> After this section, return to the Beyond Identity Console to copy values for this SCIM configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this section, return to the Beyond Identity Console to obtain values needed for this SCIM configuration.
```

### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Create API token for inbound SCIM

This section is for configuring Okta as an inbound SCIM provider for your Beyond Identity directory. Follow the steps below in your Beyond Identity  Console.

> 1. On the new Okta app in Beyond Identity, navigate to the **Bearer tokens** section.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Okta app in Beyond Identity you created in Stage I, navigate to the **Bearer tokens** section.  
```

2. Click **Add bearer token**.  

> 3. Input a name for the bearer token such as **Okta SCIM Token**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Input a name for the bearer token such as `Okta SCIM Token`.
```

4. Select an expiration date for the token.  The default value is valid.
5. Copy the value and store in a secure location.  
6. Scroll to the **Configure inbound provisioning** section.  

> 7. Copy the **SCIM URL** value, for example `https://api-us.beyondidentity.com/v1/.../scim/v2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Copy the **SCIM URL** value, it should look like `https://api-us.beyondidentity.com/v1/.../scim/v2`.
```

:::note
The Beyond Identity bearer token for the inbound SCIM has an expiration date. To continue with the SCIM implementation, the token must be updated after the initial token expires.<br></br><br></br>Okta does not support SCIM with `client credentials`. This is a service-to-service authentication protocol that automatically refreshes the tokens. <br></br><br></br>Adding `Basic Authentication` to our SCIM implementation and not having to update the token after expiration is coming at a later time.
:::

### 🟠 Okta: Update provisioning for SCIM

After completing the Beyond Identity section for copying the SCIM URL and Bearer token values, this section goes over testing the credentials within Okta to prepare for SCIM. These steps are from your Okta Admin Console.

> 1. In your **Beyond Identity Outbound SCIM** page, navigate to the **Provisioning** tab.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your **Beyond Identity Outbound SCIM** application you created earlier, navigate to the **Provisioning** tab.  
```

   2. **Update User Attributes**  
   3. **Deactivate users**  
4. Click **Save**.  
5. Navigate to **Assignments** → Click **Assign** drop down → Select **Assign to Groups**.
6. Select **Assign** for **Beyond Identity** group.  
7. Click **Save and Go Back**.
8. Click **Done**.

### 🟠 Okta: Push SCIM users

With the configuration complete for the inbound and outbound SCIM implementation, the app must push users to Beyond Identity. Begin this process with the steps below.

1. On the **Beyond Identity Outbound SCIM** Application page, navigate to **Push Groups** tab.  
2. Click **Push Groups** dropdown.  
3. Select **Find groups by name**.  
4. Search for **Beyond Identity** group.  
   - *NOTE*: The Okta directory cannot have a group with the same name existing in the Beyond Identity directory. Group name collisions result in an error.
5. Click **Save**. This prompts the SCIM process to begin in Okta to push the group to Beyond Identity.

:::note
Check the identities and groups in the Beyond Identity Console to confirm the SCIM setup and application success. Updates may take time. If the SCIM setup hasn't completed, check your SCIM application configuration. 
:::

## Stage III

> The sections for Stage III cover setting up Beyond Identity as the single sign-on application for the identity provider in Okta. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove, we're not doing this in this step, we're setting up the callback hook.

> This involves setting up a callback hook into your Okta directory to update an attribute on users in your Okta directory. This value communicates that the user has registered a Beyond Identity passkey. This attribute is necessary in Stage IV, [Okta: Create routing rules](#-okta-create-routing-rules) to route your users to use Beyond Identity to authenticate into Okta rather than your existing authentication methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section involves setting up a callback hook into your Okta directory to update an attribute on users in your Okta directory. This value communicates that the user has registered a Beyond Identity passkey. This attribute is necessary in Stage IV, [Okta: Create routing rules](#-okta-create-routing-rules) to route your users to use Beyond Identity to authenticate into Okta rather than your existing authentication methods.
```

### 🟠 Okta: Create Okta API token

The steps below are for the Okta platform. This section guides you through creating an API token to use within Beyond Identity.

1. On the Okta platform, navigate to **Security** → **API** → click the **Tokens** tab.  
2. Click the **Create token** button.  
3. Input a name for the token in the first field.  
4. On the dropdown field below, select **Any IP**.  
5. Click **Create token**.  
6. Name the token **Beyond Identity API Token**.
7. API Calls made with this token must originate from **Any IP**. This can be changed later.
8. Copy the token value and store it in a secure location. Click **OK, got it** to continue.

### 🟠 Okta: Set up custom attribute for users

> The section here is for setting up a custom attribute for users in Okta. This value acts as a flag for users signing in to Okta to be directed to the Beyond Identity sign on process. When the integration is complete, the phishing-resistant multifactor authentication from Beyond Identity serves as the security between the user and the resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The section here is for setting up a custom attribute for users in Okta. This value acts as a flag for users signing in to Okta to be directed to the Beyond Identity sign on process.
```

Unnecessary and doesn't really happen in this step.

> When the user creates a Beyond Identity passkey, the cloud service sets the `byndidRegistered` value to `true` in the Okta user's profile. This indicates the user has a Beyond Identity passkey. It is used for the routing rule to direct users to use Beyond Identity authentication during login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user registers a Beyond Identity passkey, the cloud service sets the `byndidRegistered` value to `true` in the Okta user's profile. This indicates the user has a Beyond Identity passkey. It is used for the routing rule to direct users to use Beyond Identity authentication during login.
```

1. On the Okta platform, navigate to **Directory** → **Profile editor**.  
2. Select the **User (default)** profile under the Okta type.  
3. Scroll to the **Attributes** section.  
4. Click **+ Add attribute**.  
5. For the attribute, select the following and input or select the values in the associated fields.  
   1. **Data type** → **Boolean**  
   2. **Display name** → `Beyond Identity Registration Status`  
   3. **Variable name** → `byndidRegistered`  
   4. **User permission** → select **Read only**  
6. Click **Save**.

### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Configure Okta domain and set up API Access

This section guides you through configuring the Okta token created in the previous step to set an attribute in your Okta directory, indicating that the user is registered with Beyond Identity. This attribute is also used in the [Okta: Create routing rules](#-okta-create-routing-rules) section to route users through Beyond Identity for authentication.

1. On the new Okta app in Beyond Identity, navigate to the **Configure registration attribute for users in Okta** section.  
2. Input the following information into the respective fields.  

>    - Okta Domain → the Okta domain URL value from your Okta account<br></br>*NOTE:* This value must resolve to the full URL and omit the `-admin` suffix, for example `https://dev-48007952.okta.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Okta Domain → the Okta domain URL value from your Okta account<br></br>*NOTE:* This value must resolve to the full URL and omit the `-admin` suffix, for example `https://beyondidentity.okta.com`.
```

   - Okta Token → the Okta token from Step 6 of 🟠 [Okta: Create Okta API token](#-okta-create-okta-api-token)
3. Click **Save changes** at the top of the page.  
4. Scroll down to the **Client Information & Endpoints** section for values to copy to Okta.

## Stage IV

> In this stage of the integration, the Okta platform requires the new identity provider of Beyond Identity to get configured. The sections below also include using routing rules for Beyond Identity to serve as the identity provider when logging into Okta resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this stage of the integration, the Okta platform requires the new identity provider of Beyond Identity to get configured. The sections below also include using routing rules for Beyond Identity to serve as the identity provider when logging into Okta.
```

4. Click **Assign Groups**.  
5. At the top of the page, click **Save Changes**.

:::note
Users must be assigned the Okta application in Beyond Identity to use the phishing-resistant multifactor authentication flow.
:::

### 🔵 Beyond Identity: Enroll users

After completing the Okta and Beyond Identity integration for phishing-resistant multifactor authentication, follow the steps in this section to enroll users and their passkeys.

With the passkey, the process for users to log in to their Okta resources uses the Beyond Identity flow without requiring a password. Use the Beyond Identity console to complete the steps below.

1. On the Beyond Identity console, navigate to **Identities** → a specific user → **Passkeys** tab.  
2. New users have no passkeys added. Click **Add a passkey**.  
3. Under Identity Verification Method, select **Magic link**.  
4. For the Delivery Method option, select **Send email** or **Generate link.**  
5. Click the **Send enrollment** button.  
   - For the Send email option, the email connected to that identity receives a Beyond Identity email for the process to register a passkey.  

>    - For the Generate link option, a URL is generated from Beyond Identity. This link is for sharing with the user for them to register a passkey.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For the **Generate link** option, a URL is generated from Beyond Identity. This link is for sharing with the user for them to register a passkey.  
```

With the sections above completed, this section is for creating a bookmark for Okta within Beyond Identity. This streamlines users within Beyond Identity to access their Okta resources from their login page. Follow the steps below from within the Beyond Identity console.

1. On the Beyond Identity console, navigate to **Applications** → **Browse Applications** → **Bookmark** → Click **Add Bookmark**.
2. Input `Okta` in the **Display Name** field.
3. For the **Login Link** field, input the Okta organization URL, for example `https://dev-48007952.okta.com/`.
4. Optionally, for the **App Tile** option, use the Upload icon file to add an image for the user dashboard.
5. Click **Save Changes** at the top of the screen.
6. Navigate to the **Assignments** tab and add the Beyond Identity group to this bookmark app.

## End users: Register passkey

End users receive their link then follow the interactive guide for Beyond Identity.

This enrollment email guides through the following steps.

1. Download the Beyond Identity Platform Authenticator. This is the required application for Beyond Identity authentication.
2. Enroll a passkey on their device.

:::success

> Congratulations! You've completed your Okta and Beyond Identity integration!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've completed your Okta and Beyond Identity integration!

<br><br>

Now, when your users login to Okta, they will be prompted with Beyond Identity for seamless authentication experience.
```
